So, yes, the multicam sequence is something I've been wanting to teach for a while in this course,
but now that we have an opportunity to do it, let's get into how to create this multicam sequence.
So we're going to go to our footage tab and we want to select all of our performance and movie files
that we want to sync up.
So I'm going to select all those right click and I'm going to click create multicam sequence.
Now it's going to pop up a page that's just going to simply ask you, how do you want me to synchronize
these clips?
Do you want me to use in and out points that you said?
Do you want me to use timecode or do you want me to use audio?
Of course, we wanted to use audio because it's going to analyze the waveforms.
It's going to click everything in place layered on top of each other.
And we're going to leave the sequence preset to automatic.
That means it's going to set our sequence to the proper settings, the same as our footage.
And we want to leave the camera names set to enumerate cameras.
It's just going to organize the clips that we synchronize together a little bit better.
So we're going to hit OK.
And now it's going to go through the processing function of synchronizing the different clips together.
And sometimes you will get this page.
It says, we could not synchronize one or more clips, which can happen for a few different reasons.
But let's say it, OK.
And now we have our multicam sequence.
So we can already see we have our different shots lined up and we can view them all at the same time.
This is really the bread and butter and the cool part of the multicam sequence.
But as of right now, we can edit it.
So what we want to do is right click our sequence and hit new sequence from clip.
This is going to take our multicam sequence.
And it's going to drop it into the timeline with the proper settings.
And now we can see and if I hit shift zero, it's going to bring up all of our angles.
So you can kind of see that what we did in the other I think it was a second edit or third edit we did
together in the course.
We dragged all the layers and then we kind of peeled back the layer on top, which revealed the layer
on the bottom.
That's the normal way to do it.
The people have been doing for years and years.
This is a much more just quicker way to kind of click through and see all the shots and.
OK, perfect.
That's the perfect two seconds for this piece.
It's just a lot faster.
So but what we want to do next is a default labels your sequence the same as the first movie file in
the multicam, which we don't want to do.
So we're going to title this main sequence because we're going to be where all of our footage is going
to be.
And what we can do is if we double click the audio file from the multicam sequence, that's going to
actually bring us to inside the sequence, which is pretty cool.
So this is what it did.
It dragged and analyzed all these different shots using the audio, using the peaks and valleys.
You can see boom, boom, boom.
Right.
And that is how it organized.
Now, what I want to do is put these movie files on the same layer.
So I'm going to put this down.
I'm going to drag this down and I'm going to put yeah.
These are both performance three.
They're on different layers, which you'll see why we're doing this when we actually get to clicking
through the multicam is stuff that's on the same layer is part of the same window that we're seeing.
So we want to keep all the takes on the same window.
I'm just going to use these down to create
to take away this extra space.
And I can see something that's going on here.
See, we have two, but we don't see Toovey.
See, we have one, A, one, B, three, A, three, B for A, four B.
And we're also missing five B because we have six eighty six P.
We have five in two.
That warning window, if you want to call it that, that showed up.
It said we didn't get to synchronize all your clips.
Sometimes it will, for whatever reason, when it analyzes all the files, it won't match some up and
it'll say, --, I don't know what to do with this one, guys, so I'm not going to put it in the
multicam.
That's what it did with our to be take in our five BTIG so we can see that missing in the timeline.
So we're going to have to go and add that in manually.
It's not the end of the world because we've already saved a ton of time with this, synchronizing the
shots for us.
But what I'm going to do is grab five B.
I'm going to drag it in.
And then I'm going to grab fire.
I know that was to.
OK, now I'm going to grab five B.
And I'm going to drag it in.
Now, what I'd like to do before I start actually editing is just to double check, because 90 percent
of the time this does a great job and it synchronizes everything.
There are a few times I've had where for some reason it just moved the clip this weird way.
It didn't, you know, put it in the right place.
So what I always like to do is to unmuted the tracks, because what it does is it's going to take the
first MLV file of the sequence that you selected.
And it's going to make that the main track and leave it unmuted.
And what it's going to do is is going to mute the rest of the tracks.
We're going to take the muting off so that we can see or actually so that we can hear that it's synched.
OK, sounding good, if it wasn't cinct, it would be like this if I were to move this over.
You hear how it's like sounding doubling.
They did.
It's doubling because one is from, let's say, a negative point, one seconds back.
Sometimes it's done in the past.
I'm going to undo the scooching of that over.
So it's in the right place.
And I'm going to go to the next track down here and I'm going to listen.
OK, next track.
OK, pretty -- good, so it did a great job.
I'm just going to move these audio files and put them on the same track, just the same way that we
did with the video files.
Take out any extra space.
It doesn't need to be there.
And if we didn't want to playback and listen, we could have also kind of looked at the waveform and
as well to make sure that these big spiky moments were on the same, uh, the same synchronization and
also say that.
But everything is looking really good.
So also what I'm going to do is take out these beginning kind of intro shots if we don't need, because
we know his performance starts here, because I can tell that he probably started here and then messed
up.
So the next thing I'm going to do is take out the beginning intro stuff that we don't need skewed everything
over.
And then I just like to take out the ending stuff that we don't need as well.